# How to Create a requirements.txt File

To create a requirements file, you must set up your virtual environment. If you don't have one, please refer to [**1. Creating virtual environments.md**](./1. Creating virtual environments.md)

1. Manage Dependencies with pip-tools

```shell
pip install pip-tools
```

2. Create `requirements.in` File

Create a [requirements.in](../requirements.in) file and include only the direct dependencies of your project. Whenever you want to update or include dependencies, you must modify the [requirements.in](../requirements.in) file first. The difference between [requirements.in](../requirements.in) and `requirements.txt` is that [requirements.in](../requirements.in) only includes the direct dependencies, and you can also specify versions. Compiling [requirements.in](../requirements.in) will generate `requirements.txt`, but you will notice that this `requirements.txt` is different from the one generated by pip freeze. You can see which package introduces another package, making the dependency relationship clear.

```shell
pip-compile requirements.in
```

3. Upgrade Packages

To update a specific package to the latest or particular version use the `--upgrade-package` or `-P` flag.

Using Django as an example:

```shell
pip-compile --upgrade-package django
```

This will automatically update your requirements.txt file, including modifications to the dependencies.

To update all packages, periodically re-run `pip-compile --upgrade`.

4. Sync Packages

To synchronize your virtualenv with the current requirements.txt file, you can simply run the following command:

```shell
pip-sync -a requirements.txt
```

This will ask for confirmation and when you enter 'y', it will install, upgrade, or uninstall in the virtual environment to match the packages listed in requirements.txt.

Feel free to let me know if you need further assistance!